Unity Web Player and browser communication
==========================================


The HTML page that contains <span class=keyword>Unity Web Player</span> content can communicate with that content and vice versa. Basically there are two communication directions:

* The web page calls functions inside the Unity web player content.
* The Unity web player content calls functions in the web page.

Each of these communication directions is described in more detail below.


Calling Unity web player content functions from the web page
------------------------------------------------------------


The Unity Web Player object has a function, <span class=component>SendMessage()</span>, that can be called from a web page in order to call functions within Unity web player content. This function is very similar to the [GameObject.SendMessage](ScriptRef:GameObject.SendMessage.html) function in the Unity scripting API. When called from a web page you pass an object name, a function name and a single argument, and <span class=component>SendMessage()</span> will call the given function in the given game object.

In order to call the Unity Web Player's <span class=component>SendMessage()</span> function you must first get a reference to the Unity web player object. You can use the <span class=component>GetUnity()</span> function in the default html generated by Unity to obtain a reference to the object. Here is an example JavaScript function that would execute the <span class=component>SendMessage()</span> function on the Unity web player; in turn <span class=component>SendMessage()</span> will then call the function <span class=component>MyFunction()</span> on the game object named _MyObject_, passing a piece of string data as an argument:

````

<script type="text/javascript" language="javascript">
<!--
function SaySomethingToUnity()
{
	var unity = GetUnity();
	unity.SendMessage("MyObject", "MyFunction", "Hello from a web page!");
}
-->
</script>

````

Inside of the Unity web player content you need to have a script attached to the <span class=keyword>GameObject</span> named <span class=component>MyObject</span>, and that script needs to implement a function named <span class=component>MyFunction</span>: 

````

function MyFunction(param : String)
{
    Debug.Log(param);
}

````
__Note:__ keep in mind that if the function doesn't have any arguments, then an empty string ("") should be passed as an argument.

A single string, integer or float argument must be passed when using <span class=component>SendMessage()</span>, the parameter is required on the calling side. If you don't need it then just pass a zero or other default value and ignore it on the Unity side. Additionally, the game object specified by the name can be given in the form of a path name. For example, <span class=menu>/MyObject/SomeChild</span> where <span class=component>SomeChild</span> must be a child of <span class=component>MyObject</span> and <span class=component>MyObject</span> must be at the root level due to the '/' in front of its name.


Calling web page functions from Unity web player content
--------------------------------------------------------


In order to call a web page function from within your Unity web player content you must use the <span class=component>[Application.ExternalCall()](ScriptRef:Application.ExternalCall.html)</span> function. Using that function you can call any JavaScript function defined in the web page, passing any number of parameters to it. Here is an example Unity script that uses the <span class=component>Application.ExternalCall()</span> function to call a function named <span class=component>SayHello()</span> found within the web page, passing a piece of string data as an argument:

````

Application.ExternalCall( "SayHello", "The game says hello!" );

````

The web page would need to define the <span class=component>SayHello()</span> function, for example:

````

<script type="text/javascript" language="javascript">
<!--
function SayHello( arg )
{
    // show the message
    alert( arg );
}
-->
</script>

````


Executing arbitrary browser code from Unity web player content
--------------------------------------------------------------


You don't even have to define functions in the embedding web page, instead you can use the  <span class=component>[Application.ExternalEval()](ScriptRef:Application.ExternalEval.html)</span> function to execute arbitrary browser code from the web player content.

The following example checks that the page embedding the web player content is fetched from a certain host (unity3d.com), if that's not the case then it will redirect to another URL. This technique can be used to prevent deep linking to your web player content:

````

Application.ExternalEval(
    "if(document.location.host != 'unity3d.com') { document.location='http://unity3d.com'; }"
);

````

